



Network Working Group                                      J. Hildebrand
Internet-Draft                                             Cisco Systems
Intended status: Standards Track                           July 27, 2016
Expires: January 28, 2017


                    Mark Internet-Drafts as finished
                       draft-hildebrand-finished

Abstract

   Describes a mechanism to mark an Internet-Draft as "finished",
   removing the "Expires" information and prohibiting further versions
   of that draft from being published.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on January 28, 2017.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2016 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.





Hildebrand              Expires January 28, 2017                [Page 1]

Internet-Draft                  finished                       July 2016


1.  Introduction

   Sometimes, authors want to make a document available to the Internet
   community that will have a long lifetime, but do not want to go
   through a full standards review.  Now that the Internet-Draft
   repository does not remove drafts as they expire, writing an
   Internet-Draft is a lightweight mechanism for publishing such
   documents.

   Today, if an author wants an Internet-Draft to appear unexpired, they
   have to publish a new version at least once every six months.  For
   documents that are "finished" (See Section 2), this document proposes
   that the draft be marked in a way that is easily distinguishable from
   drafts that are still works in progress.

   There are several motivations for this capability:

   o  The desire to publish stable documents that the Independent Stream
      Editor is unwilling to publish as RFCs.

   o  The need to distinguish documents without consensus or review from
      the more formal outputs of the Internet community.

2.  What "finished" means

   A "finished" draft is one where the author promises to publish no
   further revisions of a document with the same name to the Internet-
   Draft repository.  Further inferences, customs, and best practices
   may evolve over time regarding when to mark a draft as "finished".

   Documents that are "finished" are not different from other Internet-
   Drafts in that they do not represent the consensus of any portion of
   the Internet Community.  They might, at the option of a stream
   manager, be published as RFCs using the normal mechanisms; however,
   trying to publish a "finished" draft is likely to be frustrating
   since there is no easy way to capture the changes to the document
   that come out of the consensus-forming process.

2.1.  Updates after a document is "finished"

   If for some reason an author does want to publish a new version of a
   "finished" document, they will need to create a new draft with a new
   name.

   Note to authors: (TODO: check on what happens to obsoleted I-Ds)






Hildebrand              Expires January 28, 2017                [Page 2]

Internet-Draft                  finished                       July 2016


2.2.  Review process

   Like all publications of Internet-Drafts, there is no review process
   before publication other than mechanical nit checking.  The author
   uses this mechanism at their own risk.

3.  Changes to "finished" drafts

   The following changes are made to an Internet-Draft when it is
   "finished":

3.1.  Naming

   The naming scheme for Internet-Drafts is usually "draft-*-[dd]",
   where "[dd]" is a zero-padded number with at least two digits.  A
   "finished" draft will be published with a name in the form
   "draft-*-fin".

3.2.  Expiry date

   The finished output will not include an expiry date.  The expiry date
   would otherwise occur:

   o  In the document header information

   o  At the bottom of each page of the text output

   o  In the "Status of this memo" section

3.3.  Boilerplate

   The "Status of this memo" section usually contains the following
   paragraph:

   "Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
   months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents
   at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress." "

   This boilerplate may be replaced with a new paragraph that says:

   "Internet-Drafts are draft documents do not represent the consensus
   of any community, but are the sole opinion of the authors.  It is
   inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material or to cite
   them other than as "work in progress." "






Hildebrand              Expires January 28, 2017                [Page 3]

Internet-Draft                  finished                       July 2016


4.  Citation

   (Note: I don't know what to do with citations yet.  "Work In
   Progress" doesn't seem quite right)

5.  Suggested workflow

   Frequently authors will publish several versions of a document before
   declaring it "finished".  Before marking an Internet-Draft as
   "finished", authors should seek editorial review from wherever they
   can get it.  Before abandoning hope of getting a document published
   through one of the Internet community's other processes, the authors
   should have a conversation with a relevant Area Director, working
   group chair, research group chair, or IAB member to consider
   potential options.

6.  Required tooling changes

   Several tools will need to be updated to support marking drafts as
   "finished".

6.1.  Draft generation tools

   Tools such as xml2rfc will need to support the changes from
   Section 3.

6.2.  Internet-Draft submission tool

   The tooling that accepts Internet-Draft submissions will need to be
   made aware of "finished" drafts.  This tool may use the published
   file name as an indicator that the author wants to publish a finished
   document.  Further prompts may be added to ensure that the author has
   performed a full review, that the author understands no further
   versions can be published, etc.

6.3.  Nit checking

   The nit checker will need to know about "finished" drafts in order to
   check the changes mentioned in Section 3.

6.4.  Citation library

   The library of citation XML may need to have slightly different XML
   created for "finished" drafts.







Hildebrand              Expires January 28, 2017                [Page 4]

Internet-Draft                  finished                       July 2016


7.  Security Considerations

   Authors of "finished" drafts, particularly those that deal with
   network protocols, crypto streams, or other technical output, should
   consider the consequences of security issues being found in their
   documents at a later time.

8.  IANA Considerations

   Drafts that are marked as "finished" are not different from other
   Internet-Drafts with respect to registries that require "standards
   action" or are "specification required".

Author's Address

   Joe Hildebrand
   Cisco Systems

   Email: jhildebr@cisco.com
































Hildebrand              Expires January 28, 2017                [Page 5]
